All right, so at this point,
I think our DataListBox class is pretty cool, and we
didn't have to write a lot of code to implement it, either.
But unfortunately, as I alluded to at the end of the last
video, there's a bug in it, and you can probably guess
what the challenge is going to be.
But first, though, let's actually see what the bug is.
So I'm going to actually run the programme again.
And what I'm going to do is select Billy Idol
from the lists of artists over here, and you can see
there's a single album here called Greatest Hits.
Now, lots of artists produce Greatest Hits albums,
so it'll be of no surprise if there's other albums
with that name in the database.
So if we select this album is the AlbumsListBox
and make a mental note of the songs on the album,
just at least some of them.
You don't have to memorise the full list, but just note
that the first track here is called American Girl,
and the last one is down here, Something in the Air.
All right, so that's Billy Idol, but if we scroll down
now to Fleetwood Mac,
choose them,
they've also got a Greatest Hits, you can see there.
Click on Greatest Hits, lo and behold,
the first song, American Girl,
and the last one is Something in the Air.
And if you scroll down and look at another one,
Tom Petty and the Heartbreakers here,
so click on that one.
They've got a Greatest Hits, and again,
American Girl and Something in the Air.
And just to be completely sure, click on the Troggs.
We've got Greatest Hits,
and again, another familiar list of songs.
Now, it's not really likely that four different artists
have all produced a Greatest Hits album with identical
track lists, so clearly there's a bug in our class.
The problem is that we're looking up the displayed value
in the database rather than using IDs.
That was a design decision that we made, and it is valid,
but we just have to do it correctly.
Now, if different master records have the same
related record such as different artists having
an album with the same name, our query
just picks the first one from the database.
So your challenge now is to modify the DataListBox class
so that it retrieves the correct record
from the linked table,
the album for the correct artists, in this example.
But keep in mind and remember that we're making
this class generic so that it can cope with any tables
that have a single column primary key.
Now, before you have a go at that,
I'm going to show you how to query the database tables
from within IntelliJ IDEA or PyCharm.
So we're gonna close this down
and click over here to the Database tab,
and we click over here to the console,
little console there to open the console.
And you can see that's opened up a tab where you
can execute SQL queries against the database
and see the results in a pane at the bottom of the screen,
and you'll see that when we actually do a query.
And if you've read about on SQL after the introduction
earlier in this section, you'll be familiar
with the GROUP BY and HAVING clauses.
But if not, they're both well worth investigating.
So we can find out how many duplicate album names
there are by running the query that I'm about to type in.
So we can type SELECT albums.name,
comma, space, count,
and I should really do COUNT in uppercase,
just to be consistent here.
(albums.name) AS, and it's going to be num_albums
FROM albums ORDER BY, sorry, GROUP BY,
GROUP BY, that's gonna be albums.name
HAVING num_albums greater than one.
And in this console, you don't need
to end your queries with a semicolon.
So, click on this little green triangle, and you can see
down at the bottom, we get the results of the query.
So, in this case, we've got four
duplicated album names in the database.
So three of them appear twice,
and our Greatest Hits example appears four times.
So it will be useful to know which artists are associated
with those albums so that we can test our fix.
Now, one thing you could do is run four separate queries
to find the albums in the database for each of those
four names, but SQL's an incredibly powerful language.
In fact, just producing that list
would have been less than ideal
if we try to use Python.
Now, Python's very good at pulling out duplicates in a list.
The problem would be that we'd have to retrieve
the full set of albums from our database first,
and in a very large database, that could result
in a lot of network traffic as well as using a great deal
of the computer's memory just to process the cursor.
So wherever possible,
try to use SQL to do most of the work for you.
Now, in running this query,
we send a simple query to the database,
and we only got back the information we wanted.
If you're planning on doing a lot of database work,
take the time to get familiar with SQL
and the things that it can do for you.
All right, so I'm gonna run another query to retrieve
the artist names for those duplicate albums,
and also demonstrate some of the power of the SQL language.
So let's go ahead and do that.
And I'm going to start with SELECT, then it's going to be
artists._id, then artists.name,
albums.name,
FROM artists
INNER JOIN albums ON albums.artist
is equal to artists._id
WHERE albums.name IN,
and then in parentheses, SELECT albums.name
FROM albums GROUP BY
albums.name HAVING COUNT(albums.name)
greater than one, end parenthesis.
Then we're gonna put an ORDER BY albums.name,
comma, space, artists.name.
Okay.
So if you run that,
you can see we now know the artists
that have albums of the same name, and that would be,
I think, very useful when testing the fix.
And just to confirm that, we've got Billy Idol,
Fleetwood Mac, Tom Petty and the Heartbreakers,
and Troggs with the four Greatest Hits
that we looked at previously in the GUI interface.
So it's now time for the challenge.
All right, so the challenge is to fix the DataListBox
class so that it displays the songs for the correct album
when the same album name appears more than once
in the database as it's currently doing.
Now, as a hint, it's worth taking the time
to work out what you need the query to be,
then check the code to see at what point
you actually have the information that you'll need.
All right, so that's the challenge.
Pause the video, and I'll see you when you get back.
All right, so, how did you go?
Hopefully you managed to sort that out.
So if we go back to our code now in jukebox,
and I'll make a bit of space here.
So we want to have a look at our on_select method.
You can see that now on line 68.
So that code in that method runs a SQL query
to retrieve the ID for the selected album,
but it doesn't actually consider
which artist the album belongs to.
So the query that we actually end up with
when a Greatest Hits album is selected is actually this one.
We get something like SELECT name, comma, _id
FROM albums WHERE name equals Greatest Hits.
So that's actually the problem effectively with this query,
and then we're actually using the fetchone method
to retrieve the first row returned.
And just to confirm that, if we actually take a copy of this
and go back to our console and run that,
you can see that we've got four records being returned,
and it's obvious at this point
that that approach isn't going to work,
because we should only get be getting one possible row.
So what we really need to do is change the WHERE clause
so that it also includes the artist ID.
So let's go back to our code again.
Well, actually, let's go back to the console
and do it in there first, just to test it.
Once we've got this correct,
we can then actually go back and update the code.
So we've got, at the moment, SELECT name,
comma, and _id.
Let's also add another one, so comma, artist
FROM albums where name equals Greatest Hits.
So we wanna do leave the WHERE as WHERE name equals
Greatest Hits, but we also wanna put
AND artists is equal to 176.
So if we run that, we now correctly get just the one result,
which is exactly what we want here.
And just to verify that this is correct,
we can actually just do a quick search,
SELECT * FROM songs WHERE
album equals 399, which you can see,
the ID is in the results window
down at the bottom, and then run that.
And if you're a Billy Idol fan, you'll realise
that all those songs are definitely Billy Idol songs.
I certainly remember those back from the 80s as well.
All right, so at this point, we know what to do.
The next question is how do we go about it?
Well, we need to add that artist ID to our query,
but where are we gonna get that from?
And if we go back to the code and have a look,
and I'll just close down this output window.
Back to our code, and we have a look at our requery method,
we'll see that it was passed to that method.
So when requery is called on the AlbumsListBox,
we get the artist to filter on in the link_value argument.
This is on line 51.
Now, that's the only time we do know the artist ID,
so we need to store it in a data attribute
so that we can then use it later.
So what I'm going to do is add a field to store
the link value in, and it's going to be updated
every time the requery method's called,
and we also need to cater for the fact
that it can be none when the complete table's displayed.
And of course that happens
with the ArtistListBox for example.
So let's go ahead and add the code for that.
I'm gonna start by adding a data attribute
for the link value.
Self.link_value equals None,
and actually, I'll put it further up here
with these other ones.
It should really go there to be more consistent.
Then in our requery method, let's save it.
So we're going to put a note here.
We're going to put self.link_value is equal to link_value,
and let's also add a comment here,
store the ID so we know the quote-unquote
master record we're populated from.
All right, so now we've done that,
the final step is to update the WHERE clause
of our query in the on_select method.
So let's go back and do that.
So I'm going to put that on the screen, the on_select
so we can see what we're doing there.
And I put a slash slash there.
That was actually meant to be a hash.
I'm too used to coding Java as well,
so, I'll just leave that there.
Actually, I'll remove that.
We don't really need that anymore.
Let's remove that completely, and what we now need to do
after the value here, we need to do
a bit of processing for that link value.
So what we're gonna do is start off, and we'll put,
as a comment, get the ID from the database row,
but also, on the next line, a comment,
make sure we're getting the correct one,
and by including the link value if appropriate.
Link_value if appropriate.
And in terms of the actual code,
that's gonna be if self.link_value.
Then we're gonna put value is equal to value,
square brackets, zero, comma, self.link_value,
then a sql_where is gonna be equal to,
double quotes, space, WHERE, space,
and double quote again, plus
self.field, plus, equals question mark
in double quotes, space, AND, space,
then double quote again,
plus self.link_field, plus,
equals question mark.
Now we're going to have an else on the next line instead,
so if we haven't got a link_value, we're just going
to put sql_where, make that equal to WHERE
in double quotes with a space at the start and end,
end double quote, plus, self.field
plus, equals question mark.
All right, then I'll just delete that comment,
'cause we've got the comment up above now.
So link_id is now going to be self.sql.select,
plus, I'm actually going to remove the WHERE now,
because we've actually created the WHERE, the sql_where
variable above, so that's sql_where, comma, value,
and we leave the fetchone call
and then the one in square brackets as it is.
And then we'll actually still just go ahead
and call the self.linked_box_requery.
So the first thing we do is we're making sure
that we do have a link value here on line 78.
If not, sql_where is set to what it had before,
so we're doing just a SQL query there,
which will basically be the entire table,
but if we do have an ID in link_value, then this code
starting on like 79 is executed, so we're building
up a WHERE clause that now includes that link_value.
Now, one thing to note is that value is a tuple,
and tuples are immutable.
So we can't add the ID to the tuple.
So instead, you can see what I'm doing on line 79
is creating a new tuple by combining the first item
in the existing value with our link_value, and we saw
that in section seven of the course when we built up a new
Imelda tuple to correct the spelling mistake in her name.
So, if we have a link_value,
our value tuple will contain both the name
and the master ID, the artist ID, in this case.
But if we don't have a link_value,
the value tuple just contains the name.
In both cases, though, the number of items in the tuple
corresponds to the number of placeholders
in the sql_where clause.
All right, so that should be the bug fixed,
so let's actually try running it, and we'll check those
records that weren't working correctly earlier in the video.
All right, so let's have a look,
and the first one was Billy Idol.
If we click on Billy Idol, click on Greatest Hits,
and that looks a lot better now.
We've got a list there that seem to be the right ones.
And let's just check Fleetwood Mac.
Greatest Hits, that looks a lot better.
Again, a completely different list now.
We haven't got those ones that were appearing before.
Let's try another one.
Go down to the Troggs.
Greatest Hits, different set of songs there,
and they're clearly Troggs songs as well.
We'll also try a couple of other ones.
Let's just go back up.
Another one that was duplicated was the Blue Oyster Cult,
and that had the Champions of Rock,
and the other one that had the same name for an album
was Nazareth, so let's have a look at Nazareth.
Champions of Rock.
Clearly a different set of songs here,
so I think everything is looking good
and working well, and there's a few more we could check.
You could go back to that other query to see the other ones
that were duplicated, but it's pretty clear here that things
are now working correctly, and we've got that bug fixed.
And by the way, if you're not familiar
with any of these artists, entering the artist
and album names into Google, into the Google search engine,
can be a good way to check
that you've got the correct album.
You'll probably struggle to find an exact match with some
of these because it depends on the orchestra and conductor.
For example, I'll just show you one other one,
this one here, Mussorgsky,
Pictures of an Exhibition.
So you might struggle with that particular one
because it depends on the orchestra and conductor.
The results we're getting is different
to the Emerson, Lake and Palmer album, though,
so it's no longer returning the wrong song list,
and the Emerson, Lake and Palmer album I'm talking about,
this one here, you can see
we've clearly got a different set of songs there.
So I think that's a really important lesson
to be taken from this, or your takeaway from this,
and that's to test your programmes thoroughly.
Now, unless you happen to select two matching albums
while testing and notice that they were displaying
the same records, this bug may well have gone unnoticed,
and testing database programmes can be particularly difficult
because the behaviour of a programme is closely tied
to the underlying data.
But running queries like the one we used earlier
in this video is a good idea to identify things
like duplicate columns in the data.
And we should also test the class when there's an artist
with no albums and also an album with no songs listed,
just to make sure it works and doesn't crash.
Now, it does actually work,
but I'll leave you to check that.
All right, so let's finish the video here.
It's got to be quite long,
and I'll see you as always in the next video.